---
layout: post
title:  "Curl"
date:   2024-01-05 14:13:03 -0500
repo:   https://github.com/curl/curl
excerpt: "Tips for editing curl in VSCode using Autotools Integration. After curl 7.76, a configureArgs like --with-gnutls is required. Test runner is homegrown. --enable-debug is required to build unit and libtests. Project: curl"
---

* TOC
{:toc}

## Versions

### 7.77.0

* As of commit [`curl-7_76_1-48-g68d89f242`](https://github.com/curl/curl/commit/68d89f242) motivated by [PR 6897](https://github.com/curl/curl/pull/6897), `configure` does not include a default build configuration, as it no longer tries to find a TLS library. Explicitly selecting a TLS library is required (eg, one of `--with-openssl`, `--with-gnutls`, etc. is required). Sample minimum viable `settings.json`:

```json
{
    "autotools.configurations": [
        {
            "name": "Release w/openssl",
            "top_builddir": "build/Release-openssl",
            "configureArgs": [
                "--with-openssl"
            ]
        }
    ]
}
```

## Building Notes

* Versions 7.77.0+ require explicit TLS configuration. See [above](#s-7.77.0)
* Extracting build tasks works correctly.
* Building using the generated tasks works correctly.


* Intellisense will be configured correctly once configuration is successful.

## Testing Notes

### Test Suite organization

Many tests exist, but they do not use automake test infrastructure; instead they use curl-specific test infrastructure (`scripts/checksrc.pl` and others); they won't appear in the Testing UI.

Notably, two tests exist that appear to use automake testing, but they do not correctly do so:

* Test Suite: `docs/libcurl`
  * `check-easy.log` - checks that the `easy` API (`curl_easy_setopt(3)`) manpage includes each CURLOPT* options documented in docs/libcurl/opts is mentioned in `docs/libcurl/curl_easy_setopt.3`. All these files are source files, edited by the maintainer. The purpose of the test is to check that the documentation included with the project has a minimum of consistency.
  * `check-multi.log` - same logic as above, but for the `multi` API

The two tests are implemented such that running 'make check' does not re-test the documentation, but merely output the last cached result.

### Building tests

* Unit tests are only built if `--enable-debug` is given in `configureArgs`, and they are always built by `make all` in this case. Correctly declared automake tests would only be built when `make check` is run, and would not require a configuration flag like `--enable-debug`
* Since they are not correctly declared as `check_PROGRAMS`, but as `noinst_PROGRAMS`, the extension detects them as regular build targets, as opposed to test programs. Build tasks such as "`autotools: build 'unit3200' in tests/unit`" are created in `Palette/Run Tasks/`**`build`** for these mis-declared tests.

## Config Fail

  * The configuration (**Prepare build directory**) task will fail if `configureArgs` does not contain a TLS option. See [version 7.77.0 above](#s-7.77.0)

## Dry Run

 * Dry-running only succeeds if `configureArgs` includes a TLS selection (see `configure --help`)
 * Once configured, dry-running correctly extracts Intellisense Info and build targets.

## TODO
* Implement a Pull Request to the curl project to implement automake parallel test in the various tests/* directories