---
layout: post
title:  "lasso"
date:   2024-01-05 14:13:03 -0500
repo:   https://git.entrouvert.org/entrouvert/lasso
excerpt: "Tips for editing lasso in VSCode using Autotools Integration. Openssl, python36, libtool-ltdl, and gtk-docs undeclared dependencies Project: lasso"
issue: 1
---

* TOC
{:toc}

## Versions

### 2.8.1

  * Requires OpenSSL > xxx, but not constrained correctly in configure.ac. This causes "implicit declaration of `PEM_read_bio_PUBKEY`", etc. at build time

## Building Notes

### On CentOS-7:

  Building from git requires the dependencies below being present, and `./autogen.sh` bootstrapping. The usual `autoreconf -fvi` is not enough.

  #### "_ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'six'_"

  * depends on `python36-six` but not checked in **configure.ac**:
    * `yum install python36-six`

  #### "_/opt/rh/devtoolset-11/root/usr/libexec/gcc/x86_64-redhat-linux/11/ld: cannot find -lltdl_"

  * depends on `libtool-ltdl-devel` but not checked in **configure.ac**:
    * `yum install libtool-ltdl-devel`

  #### "_implicit declaration of `PEM_read_bio_PUBKEY`_"

  * improper dependency on openssl. required version is not correctly specified.

  #### "_You don't have gtk-doc installed, and thus won't be able to generate the documentation._"

  * `gtk-doc-tools` is required, not recommended:
    * Causes errors at bootstrapping and configuration:
      * "_docs/reference/lasso/Makefile.am:118: error: EXTRA_DIST must be set with '=' before using '+='_" and,
      * "_config.status: error: cannot find input file: `docs/reference/lasso/Makefile.in'_"
      * without it,`automake` cannot generate Makefile templates (Makefile.in files).
      * If you've attempted bootstrapping without it, cleanup is required with `./autogen.sh`
   * `yum install gtk-doc-tools`


 
 ## Testing Notes

   * there are 3 test suites:
     - `tests`,
     - `bindings/python/tests`,
     - `bindings/perl`
   * the "`tests`" test suite is disabled silently if `check-devel` is not installed:
     * `yum install check-devel`

   * the library tests in `tests/` use forking, making debugging not straight forward.
     * set `int dont_fork = 1;` in main() to avoid forking. Then a single click on the "debug" button in Testing UI allows single-stepping and breakpoints in the test, or
     * set "CK_FORK=no" in `TEST_ENVIRONMENTS`
 ## Bootstrap fail

  * Bootstrapping is implemented in `autogen.sh`, which also configures the project. The failure of this script can indicate either:
    * the bootstrapping itself failed or,
    * the initial configuration failed
  * The initial configuration requires `gtk-doc`: `--enable-gtk-doc`

## Test fail with error 2

  * Error 2 is a dependency build failure, ie, the test could not be built.
  * Running or debugging a test in the `tests` suite without building 'all' first results in:
    * _"make: *** No rule to make target '../lasso/liblasso.la', needed by 'tests'.  Stop."_
    * this means the liblasso.la static library is not a dependency of the test. Ie, modifying the source of this library and then running the test means the test does not run on the updated library.
  * The `tests/tests.log` and `tests/tests2.log` tests belongs in the `lasso` subdirectory, where the `liblasso.la` is built, as they are unit tests against functions in that library. Moving the unit tests to the appropriate directory would allow the dependency `liblasso.la` to be built/updated if needed when the tests run.

## Config fail  

  * Project has a few dependencies, without which configuration fails.
    * Check the Terminal output for a message `"configure: error: Package requirements (...) were not met"` and install the listed dependencies.
